21 February 2024
  Today we talked about the unisexual vertebrate perspective paper and potentially adding simulated data to it.
  We also talked about the parameters being used for the simulations, specifically those for fitness of the mutations. William is going to see if he can plot out the distributions being sampled from for Randy's simple mind (Randy wrote this using his simple mind).
  William also tried making the fitness value for each nuclear mutation a function where the effect (starting fitness vale of the mutation) is raised to the power of the number of mitochondrial mutations. However, this made it so that with deleterious nuclear mutations, any mitochondrial mutation that arose has a deleterious effect on the nuclear mutation. This may present a problem when negative nuclear mutations are fixed before any mitochondrial mutations arise.
  William is going to tinker with mutation rates to see if he can increase the rate of mitochondrial mutations compared to nuclear mutations.
  Additionally, I added the dissertation of Manisha Munasinghe to the "Literature" repository, and here is one of her repositories focused on mitonuclear simulting in SLiM: https://github.com/mam737/mito_nuclear_SLiMulations

14 February 2024
  William figured out how to model the mitochondrion by implementing the modifychild method- this takes the maternal mitochondrial genome (the first genome in the SLiM script) and writes over the paternal genome (the second genome in the SLiM script).
  This makes the mito genome both functionally haploid and uniparentally inherited.
  The model as a whole works like this: Baby is born. Baby mutates. Baby is modified. Gametes are formed, and Baby becomes parent.
  Overall we will look at how population size changes between different reproductive modes across time. Additionally, it would be interesting to look at the interaction between repro mode and changes in parameters (recomb rate, mutattion rate, fitness, pop size (initial), mito size, amount of epistasis)
  
  Of the three primary problems we described on January 24, William has figured out solutions for problem 1 (different repro modes) and  problem 3 (mitochondrial and nuclear DNA). 

7 February 2024
  William thought of the cool idea to create a haploid genome for the mitochondrion by simply replacing one of the genomes in an individual with the other. He is going to look into using the modifychild method to do this, with a focus on the simulate a gene drive section (12.3 in SLiM manual).

31 January 2024
  William figured out how to: (A) create scenario where a divergence event leads to an asexually-reproducing lineage and a sexually reproducing lineage and (B) set up the Muller's ratchet scenario.
  So, problem 1 (described in January 24 meeting notes) is solved!
  -- He actually created three populations: (1) Multiple-mate sexually-reproducing lineage, (2) Selfing sexually-reproducing lineage, and (3) Clonal lineage.
  -- The simulation shows an interesting interaction between repro mode and population size over time
  THIS WEEK: William will read through section 14.5 to see if modeling the Y chromosome wiht psuedo-autosomal regions could be co-opted to model the mitochondrion. The challenge is making sure the mito portion gets inherited by 100% of the offspring (which doesn't occur with the Y chromosome) while still only being transferred by a single parent. However, for now it is okay if the "mito" region is biparentally inherited and simply is a region where no recombination happens.

24 January 2024
  William and I identified 3 primary problems to solve for this project:
	1- Splitting population into sexually reproducing and asexually reproducing lineages
	2- Create two chromosomes where one can recombine and the other can't
		NOTE: This is the way it will be in the sexually reproducing populations. 
	              In the asex repro pops both won't be able to recombine
	3- Create a measure of fitness from the interaction between the two chromosomes created in 2
  
  This week William will address problem 1 above. He will create a SLiM script that:
	- Starts with a single population
	- Runs for 1000 generations
	- Splits off a subpopulation
	- Sets the new subpopulation as asexually reproducing (using methods in SLiM)
	- Run for 1000 more generations

17 January 2024
  William installed ubuntu and cloned the git repository
  This week he will work through the rest of Chapter 4 and move into 5.2.3
  For next week: Show William how to push to main branch and write out project objectives in detail (in ReadMe.md)

